I wish I could see you all
right now,
but I'm just going to pretend
that you're out there
somewhere behind my computer.
So two years ago at Solstice,
I told the story about an old
man who had a lodge
at Mount Saint Helens.
And when the mountain was about
to blow,
he really just couldn't bring
himself to believe
that he was about to lose
everything,
that this could really happen.
So he stayed.
And he went down with his cabin.
I really hoped that our
community would be different,
that when science pointed to an
impending disaster of some kind,
we would notice and take action.
So then, beginning of this year,
there's a novel coronavirus
in Wuhan, it's spreading. And a
lot of media in the US,
January and February, are
saying that
it's not a big deal, don't
panic,
you have more to be concerned
about from the flu.
And we just didn't buy it.
People in this community really
didn't buy it.
People looked around and saw a
lot of evidence
that, no, this thing was
spreading
in a lot of different countries.
The infection fatality rate,
well we didn't know what it was
exactly,
but it looks significantly
worse than the flu.
And people spoke up.
And we acted, and we
bought toilet paper and we told
our parents to buy toilet paper
and to go buy masks and food and
we didn't know what was going
to happen exactly, but
we knew that there was
something to be prepared for.
And I think as this unfold,
unfolded, we tried our best to
apply
the tools we had to this
problem.
To basically go through the
literature and try to figure
out infection dynamics,
try to figure out how to
protect ourselves,
I just saw so much organization,
people on Facebook groups, on
Less Wrong, people organizing
Zoom calls,
to try to make sense of what
was happening.
And you know, there were some
interesting epistemic
challenges. The CDC, early on,
said that masks
there's no evidence that masks
were effective at preventing
transmission.
And I remember talking with
people about this and thinking
about, you know, what evidence
we did have.
And I think at the end of the
day, most people did go out
and they bought N95s and they
wore them.
This community is no stranger
to global catastrophes.
And I think there's something
to that, right?
Artificial general intelligence,
nuclear war,
engineered pandemics.
In some ways, we should be good
at this.
This is our wheelhouse.
And I really like this
community.
And I like that we don't just
think about how to know what's
true.
We actually believe that true
things can be figured out.
And that
yeah, the world's complex and
messy and, no, not always
amenable to randomized
controlled clinical trials,
but we can still reduce our
uncertainty.
This year was pretty
significant to me.
Not just because it was, like,
weird and bad and
strange.
And not just because I was
worried about
my friends and family and
grandparents.
This year was meaningful to me
because
it really did present
I think, a really important
opportunity,
an opportunity to learn from,
like,
a live unfolding catastrophe,
a global pandemic,
one on a scale that hadn't
happened in my parent's
generation or my grandparent's
generation.
And
I just really don't want to
pass up an opportunity to
learn from that.
Like, I want to know how well
we did.
I want to know how well I did,
how well the rationality
community did,
how well our public health
departments did,
governments, our own, others,
and our whole civilization, our
whole species.
I'm
pretty happy
that
our community recognized
this early on, for the most
part, and took it seriously.
Which isn't to say we didn't
make any mistakes, I think we
made some significant mistakes,
I know I made some.
But I think at the end of the
day,
I'm just pretty proud that
people
fought this thing with our eyes
open,
100 line:1
and that we didn't blink when
the storm hit.
101 line:1
I can't say the same for our
federal government.
102 line:1
I think that they really fumbled
103 line:1
some of the early response.
104 line:1
The CDC with their early tests
that didn't work,
105 line:1
and then the FDA when they
didn't let universities use
106 line:1
the tests they already had,
107 line:1
so that we were blind to the
extent that the coronavirus
108 line:1
was spreading in our country.
109 line:1
A lot of mistakes were made.
110 line:1
And coordination is hard.
111 line:1
Risk assessment is hard.
112 line:1
Public health policy in a
chaotic
113 line:1
aging bureaucracy is pretty
hard.
114 line:1
But if I step back a little bit
and think about how we did
115 line:1
as a whole world, as a whole
species,
116 line:1
then
117 line:1
I think we're doing pretty well.
118 line:1
It used to be
119 line:1
that a pandemic
120 line:1
was a bizarre hand
121 line:1
of a mad angry God.
122 line:1
But now
123 line:1
a pandemic
124 line:1
usually is caused by a virus.
125 line:1
Right?
126 line:1
And it has a spike protein,
127 line:1
and the spike protein binds
well with certain human cell
128 line:1
receptors,
129 line:1
and, you know, we figured out
that if you can inject some
130 line:1
RNA into some people and you
can sort of get those cells to
131 line:1
produce some bits that can
132 line:1
train the immune system to
produce some other bits,
133 line:1
those bits can bind to the part
of the virus
134 line:1
with these receptors, and
basically you can stop
135 line:1
infection in its tracks. Like,
we can do that now.
136 line:1
That's pretty cool.
137 line:1
And like yeah,
138 line:1
we could have probably produced
and tested a vaccine faster,
139 line:1
but the fact remains that
140 line:1
never before in human history
have we ever produced
141 line:1
so many doses of vaccine and
tested them in such a short
142 line:1
period of time.
143 line:1
And I think it's good that
we've come a long way, because
144 line:1
I think we have a long way to
go.
145 line:1
We beat smallpox because we
learned how it worked.
146 line:1
And how it could be stopped.
147 line:1
And the story is roughly the
same with COVID, except that
148 line:1
we learned faster and better.
149 line:1
And I think that future
challenges are going to be
150 line:1
harder, maybe a lot harder,
151 line:1
and that some of them
152 line:1
aren't going to give us good
feedback in the same way that
153 line:1
these gave us good feedback,
154 line:1
and for some of them
155 line:1
there won't be any second
chances at all.
156 line:1
So I say let's take this
opportunity,
157 line:1
while we have it, to learn,
this year.
158 line:1
And let's notice our mistakes,
and our confusions, and the
159 line:1
things we failed to predict.
160 line:1
And at the same time, let's be
proud of each other,
161 line:1
and let's notice where we did
well,
162 line:1
and where we learned, and where
we grew.
163 line:1
I'm certainly proud of you all,
164 line:1
not just for getting through
this,
165 line:1
but for staying curious
166 line:1
and keeping your eyes open.